This guidance will show you how to publish changes to the Staging and Live sites.
Only push to Live if you are happy with the changes being seen by the public.
Remember that any changes on the Staging site have a risk of ending up being seen by the public,
as i) both sites are public, and ii) another user may make a push to the Live site.

For this part of the guidance, you will be using GitHub.com instead of Git Bash.

Pushing to Staging has 1 step:
1. Commit changes to a CSV or metadata file (and wait 10 minutes)

Pushing to Live has 2 steps:
1. Create a Pull Request comparing Develop branch to Master branch
2. Wait for Travis CI (.org) to rebuild the site, and merge the changes

Troubleshooting section at the bottom of the page.

Any questions, you can contact Chris (ONS UK) at christopher.norris@ons.gov.uk

-----------------

Pushing to Staging

1. Commit changes to a CSV or metadata file (and wait 10 minutes)

It is very simple to make changes to the Ghana Staging site - simply commit an update a CSV fileand metadata file in 'sdg-indicators',
and then wait 10 minutes for the Staging site (https://sustainabledevelopment-ghana.github.io/sdg-indicators/) to catch up.

For example, you can toggle the display of indicator 1.1.1 by changing metadata field 'reporting_status' to 'notstarted' or 'complete'.

-----------------

Pushing to Live

1. Create a Pull Request comparing Develop branch to Master branch

To push commited changes to the Live site (https://sustainabledevelopment-ghana.github.io/), make sure your branch is 'develop'.
Click 'New pull request' and update the 'base fork' (left-hand option) to your repo's 'master' branch.
For example, for the Ghana SDG site it will be sustainabledevelopment-ghana/sdg-data > master.

If 'master' is on the left and 'develop' on the right, and the repo name is as expected, then you can proceed.
Scroll down to review the changes that will be pushing from the 'develop' branch to 'master'.
When you're happy, call the Pull Request 'Push to Staging' and press go.

2. Wait for Travis CI (.org) to rebuild the site, and merge the changes

You can view your new Pull Request in 'Pull Requests'. There will be an orange circle indicating that
the changes are pending in travis-ci.org. Click 'Details' to see how this is going (it takes about 5 minutes).
Note: If you haven't used Travis before, just follow the instructions to link your GitHub account.

Fingers crossed the Travis 'build' will go through with no problems, and turn green.
If so, go back to GitHub and merge your Pull Request by clicking the green button.
Within about 15-30 minutes (it varies), the changes should have be pushed to the Live site.
If they haven't proceed to 'Troubleshooting' below.

If it goes red, or runs for more than 10 minutes there is a problem.
Proceed to 'Troubleshooting' below.

If you are having problems (files not apopearing on Staging or Live), then try going to travis-ci.org, and
clicking 'Restart Build' for sdg-indicators, then (when it's gone green) sdg-data. This will hopefully clear any blocks.
If not, it could be a problem with the metadata. Ensure that reporting status is set to 'complete', and that the CSV passes checks.

Job's a good'un! You have now pushed to Live/Staging.

-----------------

Troubleshooting

If the Travis build goes red, or takes more than 10 minutes to complete, there has been a problem.
Open build by going to 'Details' in the Pull Request, or going to travis-ci.org.

Select the repository you are using (sdg-data or sdg-indicators), click one of the 'Build jobs',
and then scroll down to the bottom of the text output to determine the cause of the problem.
Often, a CSV or metadata field has failed the checks, and you will need to fix that file before the build can finish.
This is a case of doing another commit with the updated file, either manually or with Git Bash.

Search (CTRL + F) for the word 'error' or 'fail' - this will often be near the bottom.
There should be text explaining which file caused the error, and why. Common errors can include...


"data/indicator_17-8-1.csv : Trailing whitespace in column:  Location"
Cause: 17.8.1 CSV file has whitespace somewhere in the 'Location' column - remove it.

"found duplicate key "data_non_statistical" with value "False" in "meta/3-1-1.md""
Cause: 3.1.1 metadata file has two fields called 'data_non_statistical' - delete one.

"found duplicate key "graph_title" with value "Maternal mortality ratio (MMR) in "meta/3-1-1.md""
Cause: 3.1.1 metadata file has two fields called 'graph_title' - delete one.

"Checking 244 metadata files...
"graph_title missing for published statistical indicator in meta/2-2-2.md"
Cause: 2.2.2 metadata file is missing the 'graph_title' field - add it.
Note: It can be useful to look at a completed indicator from ONS DIGITAL repo, or to
update the metadata through the 'Edit' button on the site to help add a missing field.

"data/indicator_5-5-1.csv : Empty row on rows:  [2]"
Cause: 5.5.1 CSV is missing a row - find and amend it (try the bottom of the CSV)

"data/indicator_17-6-2.csv 'utf-8' codec can't decode byte 0xe9 in position 9: unexpected end of data"
Cause: 17.6.2 CSV has a forbidden character (á, é, í, ó, ú, ü, ñ, etc.) - replace it


If you have any questions you can contact Chris (ONS UK) at christopher.norris@ons.gov.uk
He is not a developer but might be able to find a fix for your problem.
